README.md, before:

# My Neovim configuration

## Prequisite (obviously): Neovim installation

Many possibilities documented in the official neovim github repository.
My prefered choices are AppImage for 64bits architecture and build from source for ARM.

### AMD64 (All distrib)

```
TODO
```

### ARM (Ubuntu / Debian for the prerequisites)

```bash
sudo apt-get install ninja-build gettext cmake unzip curl
```

```bash
cd /tmp
git clone https://github.com/neovim/neovim
cd neovim && make CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
sudo make install
```

## Installation

```bash
cd ~/.config
git clone https://github.com/NicoGGG/nvim.git
```

## External tools to install

### Node18

Many plugins need nodejs to work. The simplest is to install with nvm (Not at all a confusing name with nvim)

```bash
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.39.7/install.sh | bash
nvm install 18
```

### Nerd font

For better looking UI with icons, a [NerdFont](https://www.nerdfonts.com/) needs to be installed

#### On ubuntu

TODO

#### On chromebook

I found myself trying to use neovim on my chromebook, and this is the solution I found to install a Nerd font
(From [here](https://github.com/ye-rm/Use-Meslo-Nerd-Font-on-chromebook))

1. open your terminal
2. pressCTRL+SHIFT+J
3. copy&run

```javascript
term_.prefs_.set('font-family', 'MesloLGM Nerd Font');
term_.prefs_.set('user-css-text', '@font-face {font-family: "MesloLGM Nerd Font"; src: url("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ye-rm/MesloNerdFont-in-chrome-OS/main/MesloLGMNerdFont-Regular.ttf"); font-weight: normal; font-style: normal;}')
```

This should be adaptable for other fonts by adapting the font-family name and the src url

### Go

To use the golang LSP (and run my go programs in the process)

#### ARM

[Official install instructions](https://go.dev/doc/install)

```bash
mkdir -p /tmp/goinstall
cd /tmp/goinstall
wget https://go.dev/dl/go1.21.5.linux-arm64.tar.gz
tar -xf go1.21.5.linux-arm64.tar.gz
sudo rm -rf /usr/local/go && sudo tar -C /usr/local -xzf go1.21.5.linux-arm64.tar.gz
echo "\n# Add the go bin to your PATH\nexport PATH=\$PATH:/usr/local/go/bin" >> $HOME/.zshrc
echo "# Add GOPATH/bin to your PATH\nexport PATH=\$PATH:$(go env GOPATH)/bin" >> $HOME/.zshrc
export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/go/bin:$(go env GOPATH)/bin
go version
```

### Lazygit

[Official repository](https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazygit?tab=readme-ov-file#manual)

Now that we have go installed, we can simply use the manual install method that should work with any distrib and architecture

```bash
mkdir /tmp/lazygit
cd /tmp/lazygit
git clone https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazygit.git
cd lazygit
go install
```

### Potential issue with nvim-treesitter

> [!NOTE]
> If the parser goes crazy, it might be do to a conflict between the native nvim parser and nvim-treesitter one.
> To resolve the issue, run the command `:echo nvim_get_runtime_file('parser', v:true)`. If there is another parser
> in addition to $HOME/.local/share/nvim/lazy/nvim-treesitter/parser, go to that folder and rename it whatever.
> Now running the same command should only show the nvim-treesitter parser.

## TODO

- [x] Basic setup
- [x] LSP for python and go
- [x] Which key for keymap helpers
- [x] More LSP: html, django, javascript/typescript, heredoc
- [ ] Debugger for python and go

Commit message:

doc: details about how to install with WSL

README.md, after:

# My Neovim configuration

## Prequisite (obviously): Neovim installation

Many possibilities documented in the official neovim github repository.
My prefered choices are AppImage for 64bits architecture and build from source for ARM.

### AMD64 (All distrib)

```
TODO
```

### AMD64 and ARM (Ubuntu / Debian for the prerequisites)

```bash
sudo apt-get install ninja-build gettext cmake unzip curl
```

```bash
cd /tmp
git clone https://github.com/neovim/neovim
cd neovim && make CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
sudo make install
```

## Installation

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/.config
cd $HOME/.config
git clone https://github.com/NicoGGG/nvim.git
```

## External tools to install

### Node18

Many plugins need nodejs to work. The simplest is to install with nvm (Not at all a confusing name with nvim)

```bash
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.39.7/install.sh | bash
nvm install 18
```

### Nerd font

For better looking UI with icons, a [NerdFont](https://www.nerdfonts.com/) needs to be installed

#### On windows WSL

- Download the font on [NerdFont](https://www.nerdfonts.com/font-downloads)
- Open the ttf font file you want to use. A preview appears. On the top left side, click on the Install button
- On the WSL top bar, right click and select settings
- Select your profile at the bottom left
- Appearance -> Font Face -> The font your previously just installed
- Save

#### On ubuntu

TODO

#### On chromebook

I found myself trying to use neovim on my chromebook, and this is the solution I found to install a Nerd font
(From [here](https://github.com/ye-rm/Use-Meslo-Nerd-Font-on-chromebook))

1. open your terminal
2. pressCTRL+SHIFT+J
3. copy&run

```javascript
term_.prefs_.set('font-family', 'MesloLGM Nerd Font');
term_.prefs_.set('user-css-text', '@font-face {font-family: "MesloLGM Nerd Font"; src: url("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ye-rm/MesloNerdFont-in-chrome-OS/main/MesloLGMNerdFont-Regular.ttf"); font-weight: normal; font-style: normal;}')
```

This should be adaptable for other fonts by adapting the font-family name and the src url

### Go

To use the golang LSP (and run my go programs in the process)

#### Ubuntu (Works also in WSL)

```
mkdir -p /tmp/goinstall
cd /tmp/goinstall
wget https://go.dev/dl/go1.21.5.linux-amd64.tar.gz
tar -xf go1.21.5.linux-amd64.tar.gz
sudo rm -rf /usr/local/go && sudo tar -C /usr/local -xzf go1.21.5.linux-amd64.tar.gz
echo "\n# Add the go bin to your PATH\nexport PATH=\$PATH:/usr/local/go/bin" >> $HOME/.zshrc
source $HOME/.zshrc
echo "# Add GOPATH/bin to your PATH\nexport PATH=\$PATH:$(go env GOPATH)/bin" >> $HOME/.zshrc
source $HOME/.zshrc
go version

```
#### ARM

[Official install instructions](https://go.dev/doc/install)

```bash
mkdir -p /tmp/goinstall
cd /tmp/goinstall
wget https://go.dev/dl/go1.21.5.linux-arm64.tar.gz
tar -xf go1.21.5.linux-arm64.tar.gz
sudo rm -rf /usr/local/go && sudo tar -C /usr/local -xzf go1.21.5.linux-arm64.tar.gz
echo "\n# Add the go bin to your PATH\nexport PATH=\$PATH:/usr/local/go/bin" >> $HOME/.zshrc
source $HOME/.zshrc
echo "# Add GOPATH/bin to your PATH\nexport PATH=\$PATH:$(go env GOPATH)/bin" >> $HOME/.zshrc
source $HOME/.zshrc
go version
```

### Lazygit

[Official repository](https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazygit?tab=readme-ov-file#manual)

Now that we have go installed, we can simply use the manual install method that should work with any distrib and architecture

```bash
mkdir /tmp/lazygit
cd /tmp/lazygit
git clone https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazygit.git
cd lazygit
go install
```

### Potential issue with nvim-treesitter

> [!NOTE]
> If the parser goes crazy, it might be due to a conflict between the native nvim parser and nvim-treesitter one.
> To resolve the issue, run the command `:echo nvim_get_runtime_file('parser', v:true)`. If there is another parser
> in addition to $HOME/.local/share/nvim/lazy/nvim-treesitter/parser, go to that folder and rename it whatever.
> Now running the same command should only show the nvim-treesitter parser.

## TODO

- [x] Basic setup
- [x] LSP for python and go
- [x] Which key for keymap helpers
- [x] More LSP: html, django, javascript/typescript, heredoc
- [ ] Debugger for python and go
